BCS
======

Bayesian Compressive Sensing Standalone Solver
------

This package makes it easy to find solutions to under-determined matrix problems using the Bayesian Compressive Sensing formalism. See the writeup describing the mathematical background. To get started quickly install the [fortpy](https://github.com/rosenbrockc/fortpy) package from PyPI and run the unit tests:

bash
```
pip install fortpy
git clone https://github.com/rosenbrockc/bcs.git
runtests.py bcs/ -staging staging/
```

The unit tests will compile the BCS solver on your system, execute them and make sure they get the correct results. If the unit tests are successful, you are ready to solve your own systems.

Running Your Own System
------

If you examine the `staging/` folder that the unit tests were run in, you will find:

- `bcs.do_normal`
- `bcs.do_reweighted`
- `bcs.do_bcs`.

The normal BCS routine finds a single solution to an under-determined problem *without* reweighting the coefficients to enhance sparsity. Using reweighting reduces the number of coefficients in your solution vector. The `do_bcs` routine performs multiple fits for either of the other routines (normal or reweighted) using randomly selected subsets from the matrix and measurement vector each time. Inside each of those folders there is a folder `tests` which contains input files for the tests that were performed. For the quickest start:

- grab the executable `std.x` compiled within one of those folders.
- grab the input files in one of the testing directories
- replace the contents of the files with your data.

If you are interested in using the solver in your own software, looking at the drivers `std.f90` generated by `fortpy` will show you how to do that. Additionally, the [XML Documentation Standard](https://github.com/rosenbrockc/fortpy/wiki/XML-Documentation-Standard) described by `fortpy` is adhered to so that all the subroutines and functions in the fortran modules are well documented. If you have questions, send me an email.